Conventions
===========
Convention used in constructing filenames.
 * Files with names ending ..logical.xml   are  logical ER models.
 * Files with names ending ..presentation.xml  contain presentation directives in xml.
 * Files with names ending ..diagram.xml are source of diagrams generated into svg and/or pstricks. 
 * Files with names ending ..physical.xml contain physical ER models. These are logical models argmented by attributes that are present to implement relationships (i.e. foreign key attributes).

Source and Other Files
======================

Logical 
-------
The following are all souce file:

* _ERA..logical.xml_ is a logical ER model of the concepts of entity, relationship and attribute (e, r and a). In one way of speaking _ERA..logical.xml_ is an instance of itself. More precisely it is an instance of _ERA..physical.xml_ (see below). 

* _ERAdiagrammed..logical.xml_ extends _ERA..logical.xml_ to be a logical ER model of the e,r and a concepts along with a presentation on a diagram in the ER style.

* _ERA..presentation.xml_ contains presentation directives for the 
concepts described in the model _ERA..logical.xml_. It can also be used
as presentation for _ERA..physical.xml_.

* _ERAdiagrammed..presentation.xml_ extends file _ERA..presentation.xml_ to contain 
presentation directives for the concepts described in the model _ERAdiagrammed..logical.xml_. It can also be used as presentation for _ERAdiagrammed..physical.xml_.

* _ERA..diagram.xml_ is the source for a ER style diagrammatic representation of the ERA logical model. It aggregates _ERA..logical.xml_ and _ERA..presentation.xml_ and a file of associated documentation _ERA..descriptive_text.xml_. _ERA..diagram.xml_ is an instance of _ERAdiagrammed..physical.xml_.  

* _ERAdiagrammed..diagram.xml_ is the source for a ER style diagrammatic representation of the ERAdiagrammed  logical model. It aggregates  _ERAdiagrammed..logical.xml_, _ERAdiagrammed..presentation.xml_ and the file  _ERA..descriptive_text.xml_.
_ERAdiagrammed..diagram.xml_ is an instance of _ERAdiagrammed..physical.xml_.

* _ERA..descriptive_text.xml_ contains text describing the various e, r and a of model ERA. 

Physical
--------
In this meta model we are concerned principly with physical implementation in 
xml and therefore with physical models that are hierarchic (rather than relational)
Such models contain foreign keys to implement reference relationships but 
not foreign keys for dependency relationships for these are implemented by structural containment.

### Generated ###

The following files are generated by the logical2physical transform

* _ERA..physical.xml_ is a physical ER model of the concepts of entity, relationship and attribute. Both _ERA..logical.xml_ and _ERA..physical.xml_ 
are an instances of of this physical model. 

* _ERAdiagrammed..physical.xml_ is a physical ER model of the e,r,a concepts along with a presentation on a diagram in the ER style.

### Source Files ###

* _ERA..physical..diagram.xml_  Source for a diagram representing the _ERA...physical.xml_
model.

* _ERA.diagrammed..physical..diagram.xml_  Source for a diagram representing the _ERAdiagrammed...physical.xml_
model.



