
## 16 Aug 2025
er2flex diagramming ---  New naming conventions for source files of ER diagrams
and adding flex tuning files to each selected example.
The filenames are to reflect that a diagram is a model plus some flex diagram tuning instructions 
--- these fine tune the diagram produced automatically for er2flex --- and that the original format for diagram presentation is now considered legacy code.

### Overview
Implement new file naming conventions for producing ER diagrams using er2flex.

Change all selected examples and add tuning files to all these examples.

Implement a new variant of the script er2flex2svg.ps1 to support the new filename conventions. 
Name this new script er2svg.ps1.

### File names
The cricket selected example is typical. Currently there are the following files

  + cricketMatch..logical.xml
  + cricketMatch..presentation.xml
  + cricketMatch..diagram.xml
  + cricketMatch..physical..diagram.xml

Rename the latter three files        

  + cricketMatch..legacyPresentation.xml
  + cricketMatch..legacyDiagram.xml
  + cricketMatch..physical..legacyDiagram.xml *currently, this is either relational or hierarchical physical*

To these I need add

  + cricketMatch..flexAdjustments.xml *containing flex diagramming scripting to fine tune the diagram generated by er2flex*
  + cricketMatch..diagram.xml *just includes two files cricketMatch..flexAdjustments.xml and cricketMatch..logical.xml*
  + cricketMatch..physical..diagram.xml *just includes two files cricketMatch..flexAdjustments.xml and cricketMatch..physical.xml. This latter file is generated in the build area.*

### Upshot
The following .svg (and like .html) diagrams will be produced:
+ cricketMatch..legacyDiagram.svg
+ cricketMatch..physical..legacyDiagram.svg
+ cricketMatch..logical.svg   *this is the flex diagram produced for the logical model*
+ cricketMatch..diagram.svg   *this is a manually adjusted version of the flex diagram for the logical model*
+ cricketMatch..physical..diagram.svg *this is a manually adjusted version of the flex diagram for the physical model*

### er2svg.ps1
To support these filename changes produce a variant of the script er2flex.svg.ps1 named er2svg.ps1
and use this script from selected examples build.ps1 files.

### buildLegacySVG -legacy
I will also need add a switch to the  buildExampleSVG.ps1 script to instruct it to use legacy filenames. 


### html/index
Modify html/index.html so that for each selected example there are links to raw and adjusted er2flex diagrams, the legacy diagram and, where appropriate, legacy and adjusted flex physical diagrams.

### Caveat  
Some selected examples ahve lots of auxiliary diagrams (developed for use in the book). 
These auxiliary diagrams have been converted to the legacy naming scheme and not been represented by er2flex diagrams.
Some have build scripts that enable selective building of these auxiliary examples. Ideally the build scripts would all be made selective and also allow switching between flex and legacy. It feels like most of this build script should be generic. Not sure where the division between generic and particular should be.

### Completion Date 
21 August 2025

